——————————————————————————————————————————
Testing:
Now let's see how we would test Hello.java. 
Of course it seems overkill doing so. 
Indeed the simplicity of Hello.java doesn't justify testing. 
Testing Hello.java in a real world scenario would be insane. 
It would be like applying double-entry book-keeping when you have no real business and all you do is selling your used bicycle to your friend. 
But even if it looks insane, maybe you applied double-entry book-keeping, balance charts and depreciation for the sake of learning and understanding these techniques?

Thus we will test Hello.java purely for the sake of exercise. 
The nice thing about Hello.java is that it is so simple that we can put all our focus on testing aspects without any distraction.

1. I could test Hello.java by running the program and verifying its output.
1.1 What type of test is this? Give at least three terms used by the industry for this type of test.

* blackbox test
* acceptance test
* manual tests: the concept of manual vs automatted tests is orthogonal to blackbox vs whitebox.
  Still most manual tests are blackbox tests, although even manual whitebox tests are possible 
  (e.g. using a debugger and manipulating the variables and program flow).
  And of course automatted blackbox tests are very common.
* system test: this usually implies a larger and more complex system under test, 
  where the parts (components) have been tested separately, and now it is tested as a whole.

1.2 Which term is the primary term used by software craftsmen and agilists for this type of test?

Acceptance test.

1.3 You rewrite Hello in a different language? 
    Can this type of test be reused? 
    What constrains the reuse of this type of test?

A blackbox test verifies the requirements, and is independent from the implementation language.
In case of an automatted test the constraint is on the environment it needs to run.
And of course it must somehow be able to „couple“ to the interface of the system under test.
In case of a manual test the constraint is on the effort / time needed to perform the test.

1.4 Try to write a makefile which performs the test.
1.5 Try to write an ant script which performs the test.
1.6 Try to write a maven script which performs the test.
1.7 Try to write a gradle script which performs the test.

2. I could test Hello.java by calling its methods and verifying their behavior or state changes.
2.1 What type of test is this? Give at least three terms used by the industry for this type of test.

* whitebox test
* unit test / component test
* regression test: this is not equivalent to a whitebox test.
  Key point here is an automatted test. Second key is fast feedback => fast runtime. Third is a good coverage.
  For these reasons a regression test is done often on the lower layers of a large system => unit test
  (a system test would not be fast enough, and a smoke test has too little coverage). 

2.2 Which term is the primary term used by software craftsmen for this type of test?

Regression test? Unit test? I am not sure..
=> Feedback Nelkinda: Unit test is the common term for this type of test.

2.3 You rewrite Hello in a different language. Can this type of test be reused? 
    What constrains the reuse of this type of test?

Very limited reuse in a different language, because it must link to the executable and needs access to its implementation.

2.4 Write such a test using JUnit without modifying Hello.java.
2.5 Write such a test using TestNG without modifying Hello.java.
2.6 While it was possible to write these tests, there was a major issue that had to be solved. 
    What was that issue and how did you solve it?
2.7 What change would make testing of Hello.java easier? Try to explain this using the SOLID principles.
2.8 How would the design have looked like if you would've first written the tests?
2.9 Change the design of Hello, world to simplify your tests.
2.10 Imagine, Hello, world would be a huge application. 
     What impact has the influence of tests on the application architecture / design? 
     How is this related to the SOLID principles? 
     How is this related to the primary value of Software? 
     How is this related to Conway's law?

——————————————————————————————————————————
3. TDD and pair programming
- Which types of tests were not mentioned in 1. and 2.? 
  Name at least four and try to describe how they fit in the picture.

  * static tests: a static test is performed on the source code of the system under test (SUT), 
    whereas in a dynamic test the SUT is executed.
    Static test can be manual (e.g. code review), or tool-based / automatted (e.g. lint, checkstyle, findbugs, ..)
  * manual tests: I have mentioned them above - but maybe you expected this answer here?
    Examples for manual tests: beta test, user interface test (if it is easy to use).
  * smoke test: usually a very fast (automatted) blackbox test, with coverage focussed on the most essential use cases.
  * all kinds of performance tests and stress tests (load test, low memory, tear test, ..).
    Purpose is verification of correct behavior and non-functional requirements like timing constraints 
    under extreme, but still valid conditions.
  * fuzzy testing: a specific type of blackbox test with randomized input.
    Intention is to verify robustness of the SUT against invalid input.
=> Feedback Nelkinda: integration test

- What is the RGF-cycle?
  R(ed) - G(reen) - re-F(actor).
  This is a procedure you follow in TDD (Test Driven Development):
  Red => write a unit test that fails (e.g. for a planned extension of the code).
  If you perform the unit tests in an IDE, then the failing test is indicated red.
  Green => modify the production code so that the new test succeeds 
  (and, of course, all other unit tests written before).
  If you perform the unit tests in an IDE, then all tests passing is indicated green.
  re-Factor => clean-up and refactor production code and tests as needed.
  Verify if still all unit tests are passing.
  Note: two years ago I learnt a TDD variant in a training with Ralf Westphal and Stefan Lieser;
  they called it „TDD as you mean it“, it is quite funny.
  In this procedure you write *only* unit tests, still following the RGF cycle.
  This means, you write the code to fix a red test _inline_ into this one test, 
  with no risk to break any other test.
  The production code then evolves out of these unit tests during the refactoring steps.

- What are the three laws of TDD?
  (1) start with a unit test, write the test before the code.
  (2) add only a minimum test which is failing.
      This can be a failure at runtime or even at compile-time.
  (3) add a minimum fix / extension to the production code to make it passing again.
  Following this procedure strictly means that you switch frequently between test and production code,
  and both evolve in parallel.
=> Feedback Nelkinda: 
  „Over the years I have come to describe Test Driven Development in terms of three simple rules. 
   They are:
   (1) You are not allowed to write any production code unless it is to make a failing unit test pass.
   (2) You are not allowed to write any more of a unit test than is sufficient to fail; 
       and compilation failures are failures.
   (3) You are not allowed to write any more production code than is sufficient 
       to pass the one failing unit test.“
   (Uncle Bob, see http://butunclebob.com/ArticleS.UncleBob.TheThreeRulesOfTdd)

- What are the names of the roles in pair programming?
  Driver and navigator.

- Which role has the keyboard?
  The driver.

- Which role is responsible for tactics / local thinking?
  The driver.

- Which role is responsible for strategy / global thinking?
  The navigator.

- What is ping pong? 
  How is ping pong related to TDD?
  Ping pong is a TDD variant with pair programming.
  The pair switches roles in the rhythm of the RGF cycle.
  One writes the next test, and then his partner writes the related production code.
  In the next cycle with swapped roles.

- If one developer is more experienced than the other, does this influence the roles? 
  How?
  In most cases, the less experienced will feel more comfortable in the role as driver,
  because in this role he has more control over the speed.
  Still it is recommended that they swap roles also in this case.

  By what should you measure success in that case?
  Hmm .. I do not understand why we need a different KPI in this case.
  It is pretty normal that not all developers have the same experience in all topics of a project.
  Using LOC as measurement of progress / success is never a good idea.
  A better KPI is features done (fulfilling functional and also nonfunctional requirements, including code quality).
  And in case you want a sustainable team (in very most cases you want this), 
  you can also take the knowledge transfer into account.

- Can you do TDD without pair programming? 
  Sure. TDD and pair programming are independent concepts.

  What do you lose? 
  Without pair programming you lose:
  * the second pair of eyes and immediate feedback
  * more divers design ideas / solution ideas.
  * knowledge transfer in the team.
  You can compensate this with more reviews, but the feedback loop is not so tight then.

  What do you gain?
  Without pair programming you have more autonomy, because you need not synchronize with a peer.
  You can follow your own speed and your own schedule of preferred working hours.

- Can you do pair programming without TDD? 
  Yes, this is possible.

  What do you lose? 
  Without TDD you lose the permanent affirmation that nothing is broken.
  In a pair the risk of fingerpointing is much higher than if I break it on my own.

  What do you gain?
  TDD is not always possible or efficient. 
  It needs a very fast build process / turnaround times to be efficient, and of course an environment with unit tests.
  Still in such cases you can perform pair programming for its benefits (4 eyes, knowledge transfer),
  and apply other QA.

- What is the single assert rule?
  According to the Single Responsibility Principle (SRP), it is recommended that a test case has a good focus
  and tests one aspect only. This is expressed as a single assertion.
  Multiple assertions in a test case can be an indicator that it tests more than one aspect and should be split.

- What are the "4 As"?
  This is a recommended structure for implementation of a test case:
  A(rrange): prepare the preconditions
  A(ct): invoke the function under test
  A(ssert): verify the postconditions
  A(nihilate): cleanup

- What is BDD? How do the 4 As relate to BDD?
  BDD is Behaviour Driven Development. This is similar to TDD, but with more focus to verify 
  only the external visible behaviour of a system, not its internal state.
  A recommended naming scheme for test cases follows the Given-When-Then scheme:
  Given = the preconditions                    => Arrange
  When = the trigger to the system under test  => Act
  Then = the observable response of the system => Assert

——————————————————————————————————————————
4. Java arrays
- What are the three possible syntax variants for declaring a Java variable of array type?
- Which of these is "unnatural" for Java and why? Why is it still supported? What do most code conventions say about that? What is your software craftsman opinion on that?
- Which of these is very limited in where it can be used? What is the benefit of this syntax variant?

